Which plan is better ICICI LMD Elovate and
HDFC Eggo Optima Secure now both are well
known big private banks both are well known
insurance companies but when comparing
products I am sure it is not just the
brand that matters to you and what also matters
is to understand the fine print in
the core benefits and even more that claims
track record and that is what we will be bringing
to you in this video using my
20 years of experience and deep data back
research from ILM Research I will break
down both these plans clearly for what
matters to you and me.  [Music]
Mahavir Chopra The Founder and Chief
Executive Officer of Beshaq.org
[Music]
Now here is what we will be covering in
this video.  Number one comparison of all the
unique features with the fine print.  To a
quick roll call of all the por benefits and
the waiting period and the fine print of these
por benefits.  Number three, a detailed look
at the real world service experience.
Starting with customer service and most
importantly, claims experience.  And
finally, a quick comparison of the prying.
One Thing Before We Jump Into the Review.  Look,
Health Insurance is full of Terms and
Conditions, Legal Jargon, Medical Jargon.
While I try to keep it easy for you to
understand.  At any point, if you feel
confused, and want to have a
personalized one-to-one conversation with
industry experts.  You can always
consult India's top 5% insurance
experts only on course for
completely free.  Mind you the experts are
not call center freshers but real
experts with real experience.  Click the
link in the description below to book a
free consultation today.  Now Moving On To The
USpiece.  The biggest USP that HDFC
Optima Secure launched with is the 2X
cover.  This means that whatever sum insured plan you are
taking, you get 2x cover from day one.  If
you take 10 lakhs then you get 20 lakhs.
That is the first and the most
important USP that anyone selling you HDFC
Optima Secure will tell you.
Next is basically the features now that we will
compare will be the features that are
comparable between both these plans.  Okay, the
next USP of HDFC Arboz Optima
Secure is basically an add-on which gives
you unlimited one-time claims in your life.
If the sum insured is less than 50 less.  Up
to unlimited claims in your life if the sum
insured is 50 lakhs and above. This is basically
an add-on that is available in this plan.  This is
usually useful for a lot of people who
basically and a lot of people have almost everybody today who
feels that okay the
sum insured I am taking is usually
going to be great but I may have that one
black span moment in my life where
basically whatever sum insured I am taking is going to fall
short like a lot of people worry about this and that is why this
feature is now becoming very
common with most of the
insurance plans and since it is also
available in ICICI it also gives
you an unlimited claim option
basically where you can take add on and once
in your life time you will be able to make an
unlimited claim now the difference is basically
what I am seeing here is the premium.  The
difference in the premium is ICICI. If
we take a standard use case
of Mr. Kumar who is 30 years old
and he is covering with his family, then the
difference in premium is
basically ₹1396 in the case of ICICI and
₹3163
in the case of HDFC, so there is a slight
difference in the premium.  So these were the two most
important USPs of HDFCO.
Now we will be moving to the ICICI
Lobbards USPs.  The first USP is that
you get an option to get an unlimited sum
insured option.  Meaning, firstly, what I
told you is that you can take unlimited sum insured in one lifetime.
This option
gives you the option of life long every year unlimited sum insured.  Meaning, like you
choose sum insured of Rs 10 lakh, Rs 20 lakh, Rs
50 lakh, Rs 1 crore, Rs 2 crore.
You can choose the unlimited sum
insured option.  I had
withdrawn premium in this once.  So, the premium that came was
around three times the premium of Rs 10
lakh sum insured, you get this cover.  Is there something which is
very, very
interesting?  So, that is the first USP
of this plan.  The second USP of this plan
is basically the separate worldwide cover add-
on.  So you can take an additional add on of
World Wide Cover in which basically for
Emergency Hospitalization and Plant
Hospitalization you can get a World Wide
Cover.  You can get cover not only in India but also outside.  There
is a waiting period of two years in this.  As soon as you
buy the plan, in the first year immediately you will not be
able to claim in this plan.  You will
have a two-year waiting period from the third
year you will be able to claim.
If you pay a little more money, the insurance company
is ready to reduce the period from 2 years to one year.  So that's
one thing.  This is a separate cover.  There
is a lot.  When I started I said that
Separate World Wide Cover is an add on.  This
means that the base coverage remains separate.
You have a separate cover for worldwide
hospitalization that you take outside India.  There are
two terms and conditions in this which are
very important to understand.  First,
only cashless is available.  You are not like that, you
can do reimbursement.  Anyone can
go to the hospital and get admitted.  If you are
going somewhere worldwide and you need to get
treatment, then you will basically have to
go to a network hospital and
get cashless treatment.  Second,
if you have to be hospitalized due to emergency treatment, then
typically you were traveling, that is, you
were on a trip or you were on a business trip or
you were on a pleasure trip,
in that case there is a condition which is very important to understand
that your trip should be less than 45 days
and if you travel many times throughout the year, then the
total number of days of your trips should be less than 90 days.
This is an
attempt to replace the health insurance cover and health care cover that is available in travel insurance.
Generally, it takes more money to get land for hospitalization.
So I have
explained to you that in cashless
you get separate cover during the two year waiting period.  It's a
very nice add on.  If specifically
you are thinking that sometimes I may have to go outside and
get treatment.  Next is
bonus.  Now in bonus, ICICI typically
gives you 20% bonus.  Which is not linked
to claims.  You basically get a loyalty bonus.
Your sum insured increases by 20% every year whether you make a claim or not.
This goes up to 100%.  But if you take an add on then they give
you unlimited sum insured
increases on the loyalty bonus feature that they have.
So typically you can increase the sum insured by 100%.
Every year when you
renew and there is no accumulation limit.
Your sum insured will increase from 100% as long as you renew the policy.
If you have taken a cover of Rs 20 lakh, then
next year it will increase to Rs 40 lakh, next year it will increase to Rs 60 lakh whether you
claim it or not.
This is a very good feature.  Basically, if you want to take some money
high then this is useful.  Again this is an
add on.  So please understand that.
You have to opt in by paying extra premium, then
you will get this feature.
So these were all the USPs of basically
ICICI Lo LBA Elevate and HDFC Ago Optima.
Okay one thing before we move forward in case
of bonus.  I will also give a comparison of
bonus here only for HDFCO otherwise basically
what will happen is that then I will have to come to the bonus.
So in case of HDFC Ergo the bonus is very plain
and simple.  There is a loyalty bonus.  It does not
basically link to claims.  You get 50%
in the first year and the maximum is 100%.
So in this, whatever cover you are going to
take, firstly you will get 2x per day
for day one pay and then you will basically get
50% and 50% more.  That's all.
In ICICI LBA case as I said 100% can be availed every
year if you take add ons and there can be
unlimited accumulation.  It
is a very interesting feature.  So we compare both also.
Now we will move to comparison of the
core benefits.  The comparison in core benefits is
quite smooth and simple.  There are a couple of
places which are very important to understand.  Please
keep your attention here.  First is IPD
room rent and ICU limit.  It
is very important to understand ICU and room rent limits as
this results in proportionate deduction in many claims.
Sometimes a lot of money is deducted.  So,
this is the most important feature.  HDFC Optima Secure
keeps it very simple.  You can take whatever room you want.  There is
no limit on room
rent or room category.  In case of LBD from ICI,
you get single private AC room by
default.  The cheapest
room is the single private AC room, which
you will get in whichever hospital you are choosing.
If you want to do it any room then
you have to pay an additional premium and then get
that add on.  So if you are taking this plan then
my strong suggestion would be that
you should not forget this add-on.  Definitely
take this add on.  Because sometimes what happens is
that this room is not available.  You
think that okay a single private AC room
is good enough but it may not be available and
you may have to be forced to take a deluxe
room and a much higher room and then there will be
proportional deduction and a
huge deduction is claimed.  So it
is very important to understand. Pre & Post Hospitalization
60 & 180 Days In case of HDFC Optima
Secure In case of ICICI its 90 & 180
Days.  It is a little better in the case of ICI Lobert
but it is fair and simple.  There is
no red flag in this for you Major.
Correct in both plants.  Day Care Treatments
All treatments covered in both the cases.   There
is a slight difference in domestic treatment.  HDFC Optima Secure keeps it very
simple.  No exclusions, no limits.
In case of ICI Lum they have put an exclusion
for 17 illnesses like asthma, diabetes,
hypertension.  This basically means that
if you are getting hospitalized at home, then
you will not be able to get hospitalized at home for these 17 diseases.
HDFC keeps
it very simple.  Saying you can do it.
In both cases, it
is very important to understand that domiciliary hospitalization is
not something that you can go and get hospitalized at any time.  You will usually have to
take pre-approvals for everything.
Because hospitalization that happens at home is
planned.  So you will always have to
take a pre-approval from
insurance companies anyway.  Modern
treatment has no limits in both cases.
Organ donors also have no limits in both
cases.  So these are the four benefits that can
reduce your hospital bill.  You may get a
big deduction.  So
we covered all that.  Now Moving To Good To
Have Benefits.  There are three good to have benefits
that we will quickly understand.  One is the
consumable cover.  What happens is that the non-
medical expenses in the hospital bill are
not typically covered by health insurance.
So in this case, if you
need consumable cover, then typically
insurance companies keep an add-on.  But HDFC
Optima Secure again has kept it very
simple.  For 68 listed non-medical items,
basically the insurance company is saying that
you will get inbuilt cover.  You do
n't need to take any add-ons.  You can basically
get a cover for consumables as a default
in HDFC Optima India.  In case of ICIL,
these 68 listed medical and non-medical
items can be covered but you will have to
pay extra premium.  Again, as
I said, if you are thinking about room rent, then
if you are taking ICICI Lo
LBD then you have to pay a lot of attention to the add-ons
because they have
made the plans in such a way that they make a base plan
and then after that you can do customization.
ICICI Lo LBD has the same approach.  So
that's why this is also an add on.  Next is
Restoration Benefit.  In case of restoration
benefit both have restoration benefit.  They
fill once for HDFC Optima Secure
applicable for all analysis triggers on
partial exhaustion does
not trigger for first claim.  Triggers from a second claim.
If you buy the add-on,
you
also get the option of unlimited restoration.  In this case ICID
is a little different.  Normally we are seeing that
all the add ons are towards ICICI.  The butt
is upside down in this.  In this, basically ICID has
given you unlimited restoration from day zero.  It has been given to
you by default.
You do not have to pay any premium.
Applicable again for all unnecessary triggers
for partial exhaustion, same as HDFC Ergo,
here also the trigger is from the second claim.
Not triggered by the first claim.
Interestingly, there are only a few plans where the
first claim is also applicable.  Otherwise, the
base benefit of restoration should be
applicable only from the second claim.  So some
insurance companies go the
extra mile and cover you even from the first claim.
These two companies do not provide it.
Next is maternity expenses.  Now both
of these insurance companies offer you an add-
on.  If it is a little different, they understand it
quickly.  In case of HDFCO, there are options from Rs 500 to Rs 2 lakh
and there is a waiting period of 2 years.
In case of ICICI Almoboard,
if you get the option of up to 10% of the sum insured, then
if you are taking sum insured below Rs 10 lakh, then
you will get 10% of Rs 500, 60000, whatever your sum
insured is, and the
maximum limit given above Rs 10 lakh is Rs 1 lakh.
So basically the sum insured option in
case of maternity in ICICI LBA is 10% of the
sum insured up to a maximum of Rs 1 lakh.  There is an end to two
year waiting period here also.  For example,
in HDFC Optima Secure, you can extend it to one year by paying a little more money.
So, for the
young couples who are recently married and are
basically planning for a baby, this is a
very interesting feature for them.  You
can see it, check out the premium.   The
limits are basically Rs 500 to 2 lakh
in case of HDFC Optima Secured.
In case of ICICI Loguard, it is up to Rs 1 lakh.  Ah
now, before we move to the waiting periods,
the exclusions, one important fine print
in the case of ICICI that needs to be
understood is the material change clause.  This
is not available in HDFC Optima Secure.
According to this clause in ICICI lmbard, what it basically
wants to say is
that you have taken a life long policy.  The
policy is renewable for life time as per IDA.
But this
insurance company is saying that if there is any change in your
occupation, location or your
health medical history,
then the insurance company has the choice to
reduce your sum insured, reduce your
terms, limit your terms and charge your
extra previously.  This is actually against the
true spirit of IIDA which is regulation.
We had made a big
post on this which also went viral.
Then came ICI Almard not
IIDA.  ICI came up with a clarification, a
public clarification where they said that of
course we
want to give a clarification on this post that we will not do this thing.
This will be in our Terms and
Conditions but it links to some other Terms
and Conditions and if the interpretation is that we will not do it.
So nothing to worry about.
If the plan is clear now, then
this is our circular which we
just talked about in this video, you
must keep that circular with you and give its print out
to your family as well, this is a very important
circular for you. Now moving to the
waiting periods, the waiting periods
are very standard, actually applicable for both, the
waiting period of IDA
is 30 days, 30 days is in the case of both, where
you buy the policy for the first time, then the
first 30 days are only for accident claims, you
cannot claim sickness claim,
in case of ICI, there is an additional condition that
for 90 days, you cannot claim the claims of BP, diabetes and cardiac.
If you have
taken the policy and you have
not declared any existing diseases like BP, Diabetes and
Cardiac and
you have any hospitalization due to these three within 90 days in 3 months of taking the policy, then the
insurance company is saying that I will
not pay the claim.  Right?  This is an important thing to
understand.  The next waiting period is a
two-year waiting period for
specified treatments.  In this case, there is a
two year waiting period in both cases.
One difference is that ICICI lambda
gives you an add on due to which you
can reduce this 2 years to 1 year.  So
this is some list of analysis that
most of the insurance companies
keep you waiting period for 2 years.  ICICI is
giving you some customization here also.
Like I said, there are a lot of customizations.
Next is basically the PED waiting
period.  It
is also very important to understand the PED waiting period.  It is definitely very important for anyone who has an existing disease to
take the plan.
Both Age at
IID regulations give you a standard
waiting period of three years.  But there are
some modifications that are available.  So HDFC
allows you to specifically treat four
diseases which we typically call A, B, C, D.
Asthma, blood pressure,
cholesterol and diabetes.  In this case,
if you pay additional premium then
you will get the cover within 30 days.  If
you get any claim for these four diseases.
In the case of Rombat from ICICI, they have
kept six diseases instead of four, where you have these six
diseases which I said four A B C D,
excluding obesity and if someone has undergone
angioplasty and one year has been completed, then by
taking this add on, you will have a waiting period of 30 days
instead of three years. Obviously, there are two
things, you will have to pay the premium and
apply to the insurance company
and it is the insurance company's call whether it will give you the insurance
or not, but this is interesting, if you have
any of these diseases, then this can be very beneficial for you
and ICICI gives a waiting period
modification, basically the
overall waiting period is PD waiting
period, where it is basically three years,
you can make it two years or even one year, you have to pay the
premium and the
insurance company will reduce the waiting periods,
except these four diseases,
these six diseases, sorry, in the case of number part,
except that, if you have any disease and
you have to reduce its waiting period  So you
can pay premiums and reduce it to one year or two years also
depending on
whatever the premium is and whatever is
basically suitable for now moving to the
customer service ratings as we always say there is
no
public disclosure in customer service ratings and IIDA reports
which tell you about how a company is doing
well in service.  Meaning, something that basically responds
or communicates.  So we have
derived these ratings through our own audits.  In case of toll free number both are
rated as average.  So both are as good as
any other company in the industry and both are as bad as them.
The second is response time
on Twitter.  HDFCO is average in response on Twitter.
ICICI LBD is coming in slow.
Basically, if you go to complain on Twitter,
many people complain on
Twitter.  You will get slow response
according to our audits.  Many people do
not even complain on Twitter.  But
this gives you a nice preview about how
insurance companies behave when they get
complaints on an open forum.  So that's why
we cover this stuff.  OK
Moving On To Claims Experience.  The most
important thing is that an insurance company can
promise all the features.   Can make
promises.  Can make very good aids.  Can do
everything.  Finally, they
even start making claims.  One is the
character parameters that we compare
for claims, which we will
discuss here quickly.  From Speed ​​of Claim.
Meaning, how many claims does an insurance company settle in 30 days,
how many of the claims it receives does it settle in 30 days.
In case of HDFC, the number is 96.63%
claims.  In case of ICICI it is 99.94%
required.  So ICICI is faster in claim
settlement compare to HDFCO next is
claim complaint.  There is a company which is
getting a lot of claims,
how many complaints are coming against those claims?
Right?  How many people are unsatisfied with the
claims is what you come to know by this.
0.15% in the case of HDFC and that of 14% in the case of
ICICI Lord.  Both are equally good and bad.
Like we normally say not bad not
good.  Typically, if I compare it
with many other companies, these are good
numbers.  Both of them have very good numbers.
Next is the incurred claims ratio.
Incurred Claim Ratio is basically a ratio
which tells you how much an insurance company
collects in claims out of the ₹100 premium it collects.
So
typically our rule of thumb is that
we say it should be between 60 to 80.
An insurance company should
not make all profits and also not incur losses.  One
should not make too much profit because obviously the
sums should be paid and one should not make losses
otherwise if there is a loss then they will
increase the premiums and that is what you
and I will have to pay.  So it should be 60 to 80.
Both are above 60 to 80.  In the case
of HDFC it is 87.04% as we speak and 85.53%
in the case of ICICI so this is a small
red flag that the incurred claim
ratio of both is high.  This means that there are
higher chances of their premium increasing.  Next is claim rejection
ratio.  It is important for us and you to know how many claims an insurance company
rejects
because
we do not want rejections at all, so in the case of HDFC Argos,
not in HDFC, and this is the total
ratio of HDFCO which is 2.47%, which means that out of all the
claims coming to HDFC in health insurance,
only 2.47 claims out of 100 are getting rejected.
In the case of ICI alarmed, the number is
quite high in comparison to HDFC for 14.11%.
Now this number honestly alarms me that there is a
company which is 20 years old, 25 years
old actually and 14% claims are getting rejected even today.
This is a very
alarming thing.  We keep
asking for clarification from the insurance company.  But
still, this is a huge red flag.  This
is something that you should discuss with your
advisor, expert or policy advisor before you buy the
policy, why is this such a high ratio?  And
how does the advisor guarantee that
he will be able to settle the claims despite the ratio?
Typically, claims that get rejected are
for wrong advice,
wrong guidance on
how to fill the proposal form.  So that is a
big reason.  But all said and non the ratio
is not good.  So you should discuss it with your
expert before buying the person.  Moving on
to pricing.  Pricing is basically an
important parameter because
you will get all the features but if you have to pay money along with the features then
it should be affordable.  So in
case of Mr. Kumar like we always say 30
years old who is taking a policy for
himself his wife and one kid who is one
year old and lives in Mumbai and buying a
sum of 10 lakhs the premium for HDFC
Optema Secure comes to 2435 as we speak
today we are recording this video.  And in
case of ICICI Lobard elevate the premium
comes to ₹13,964.   The
premium is very low.  If you compare,
in HDFCO
you are getting a cover of Rs 10 lakh for almost half the premium.  The only
difference which is very important to understand is that
HDFCO gives you 2X cover.  But the premium of 2X cover
never doubles.  So
anyway ICICI is cheaper than HDFCO in terms
of premium.  That is something that we need to
understand.  That's it.  So hope
you understood in this video what are the differences
in the plans?  Which plan
is good for what, which plan is
not good for what.  Which insurance company is doing
fair in claims, service,
everything.  Obviously, when I was discussing this,
I was also thinking that
in some things one insurance company is ahead and
in some other things the other insurance company is ahead, so
how to decide, that is, how do I give a verdict,
actually if I try to speak generally and genuinely, then it is
very difficult to give a verdict as to
which plan is good and which
plan is bad. If I am recommending you, then
I would suggest that you take
a personalized consultation from any
expert, keep your needs on
one side and the plans
available in the market on the other side
and then decide which
plan is suitable specifically for you and your
family.  Otherwise, what
I am telling you is to alert you
that some things are
good or bad in a plan, so when you are
deciding, this material will be useful
for you, but finally, consultation is very important.
If there is a consultant in your area or
who is also called advisor expert agent,
who has a very good track record
in claims and provides services for many
years in your locality, who solves the claims of the insurance company for
you, that is, the people,
in your locality,
you should take help from such a person
whose accountability
and track record regarding claims is very famous in your area.
If such an expert is
not available in your area, then what Besaq has done is that he has
gathered all the very good experts and created a community on one platform
where customers
can come and consult with them for free
and get advice.  These experts are
not call center agents.  This
is not a salesman.  These people have minimum
five years of experience.  The average
experience is 9.2 years.  Due to which basically it will
also give you the right advice.  Will
also help in purchasing the right policy.   They will
also help you in filling the proposal form
and will also help you in most of the claims.  I am
giving a number below
here.  If you need help anywhere
in health insurance, claims,
you have any question, you are not able to
understand something, then WhatsApp on this number
and our team will connect you and
help you.  If needed, the
advisor
will also connect you with our expert community.  Hope you
enjoyed this video.  If you liked it then
definitely do like this video.  And if
you want to watch more videos like this where we
break down insurance companies,
break down plans,
and give you information about insurance
so that you can buy and use the right insurance.
So definitely
subscribe to us.  Thank you very much.